# NOTES: 21 february 2023
<div>
</div>

Aeroelastics effect will affect the performance, 
you have to optimize the shape of the wing while it's deformed since
in flight the wings are always deformed, so to optimize the cruise
the deformed shape of the wing needs to be optimized.

Wright brothers twisted the wings to generate roll moment, changing 
the angle of attack changed the lift on the two wings generating
roll moment. 
The idea was not so successful and the majority of designs 
moved to use alirenos to simplify the design and the effect.
Nowadays there are studies about twisting the wings to control lift
distribution reducing drag in order to have the highest efficiency
possible. Morphing wings.

## Torsional Divergence example
Few days before the Wright first flight, the Langley Aerodrome
flew crashing due to aeroelastic effect, the wings reached a 
divergence point while the velocity increased causing the wing
to brake. This was probably due to the wing section which was
very thin with a very low cross section area. 
During the first WWI lots of aircraft were affected by torsional 
divergence, one example is the Fokker D-VII that was flown 
by the german air corps and killed the majority of the top pilots
of the same airforce.

## Control Surface Flutter
Flutter is caratterized by sinusoidal oscillation with increasing amplitude. 
The fenomenon last less than tenth of seconds and affect the control surface. 
The first plane affected by flutter was the
Handley-Page Type O and it had asymettric flutter on the elevator.
The torsion of the fuselage generate lift on the elevator in an antisimmetric way, 
to solve this the two elevators were connected togheter in order to move sincronously. 
Nowadays all aircraft have connected elevators except for military jets.


## Control Reversal 
At high speeds the aileron induces a moment on the wing that causes torsion
to a level that the deformation creates the opposite of the required effetc.
To solve this problem aileron are not used at high speeds and in their place
are used spoilers that decrease lift generating moment.